Hi Alex,

Here are some notes on the rest of the paper. Do with them what you will.

 

Section 4.1 is confusing to me. You might explain densification a little more. I don’t really know it. The figure 1 caption is confusing since in figure c density seems to be dropping, but then figure d is “proportionally denser despite decreasing density.” Also, d seems to show a plateau, not an increase.
Section 4.2 The modularity jump coinciding with the giant component jump makes me wonder if it’s more a statement about the nature of modularity than your network. Would be interesting to look at this or comment on it, but I don’t know if there’s enough time.
Section 4.4: cool and fascinating
Section 4.6: would be useful to list the “conference paper taxonomy” instead of just referring to it. Overall, make sure this paper stands on its own, without the conference paper. This is especially true here, because the conference paper will be behind a paywall, and this paper will be open source, so people won’t necessarily have access to the conference paper.
Thinking about my previous point, I wonder if you could include a slightly-redrawn (to prevent copyright violations) version of the conference paper’s Figure 4, so that readers will have a better idea what you’re talking about.
Section 4.7: I’m not totally sure about the usefulness of this section.
Section 5.1: Going back to Hutchens and Clark and Chalmers, I wish I had a reminder of exactly what they are, and what the difference is between “distributed cognition” and “the extended mind thesis.” You seem to only give one sentence about them. Maybe related work could have a section about cognitive theories?
Section 5.1, when you say “a pattern recognized in the learning sciences and cognitive exploration literature” should reference some literature. A few sentences later “schema theory” seems to come out of nowhere, with no citation.
Limitations: seems to emphasize the non-usefulness of section 4.7. If you really believe in it, emphasize its strengths.
Conclusion: it says “multi-user studies are needed.” Would be useful to state reasons e.g., why would preferential attachment or densification not emerge for any sufficiently engaged user? Might even be better to do this in the limitations section or earlier.
 

In many ways I have the feeling that this paper is so brilliant that I’m not totally sure what else to say. I am eager to see what other reviewers think. Overall the writing is good, and there are some interesting findings. I am kind of in awe of the way you have cranked this out despite everything.

John

 

-- 

John Matta, Ph.D. 

he / him / his 

Associate Professor

Department of Computer Science 

Southern Illinois University Edwardsville
